polaris.shopify.com/content/components/tables/index-table.md, before:

---
title: Index table
description: An index table displays a collection of objects of the same type, like orders or products. The main job of an index table is to help merchants get an at-a-glance of the objects to perform actions or navigate to a full-page representation of it.
category: Tables
keywords:
  - ResourceList
  - index
  - table
  - list
  - collections
  - items
  - objects
  - list of products
  - list of orders
  - product lists
  - order lists
  - collections lists
  - collection lists
  - list of collections
  - product listings list
  - channel lists
  - resource list attributes
  - list attributes
  - exceptions list
  - list secondary actions
  - secondary actions in a list
  - list of resources
  - filter
  - sort
examples:
  - fileName: index-table-default.tsx
    title: Default
    description: A index table with simple items and no bulk actions, sorting, or filtering.
  - fileName: index-table-with-views-search-filter-sorting.tsx
    title: With saved views, search, filtering, and sorting
    description: An index table with saved views, search, filtering, sorting, and bulk actions
  - fileName: index-table-with-disabled-rows.tsx
    title: With disabled rows
    description: An index table with saved views, search, filtering, sorting, and bulk actions
  - fileName: index-table-small-screen.tsx
    title: Small screen
    description: A small screen index table with simple items and no bulk actions, sorting, or filtering.
  - fileName: index-table-condensed-with-views-search-filter-sorting.tsx
    title: Small screen with saved views, search, filtering, and sorting
    description: A small screen index table with saved views, search, filtering, sorting, and bulk actions.
  - fileName: index-table-with-empty-state.tsx
    title: With empty state
    description: Use to explain the purpose of a index table when no resources exist yet. This allows a smooth transition from a list in a loading state to a list where zero, one, or many resources exist.
  - fileName: index-table-with-bulk-actions.tsx
    title: With bulk actions
    description: Allows merchants to select items and perform an action on the selection.
  - fileName: index-table-with-multiple-promoted-bulk-actions.tsx
    title: With multiple promoted bulk actions
    description: Allows merchants to select items and perform different actions on the selection.
  - fileName: index-table-with-bulk-actions-and-selection-across-pages.tsx
    title: With bulk actions and selection across pages
    description: Allows merchants to select items, perform an action on the selection and select resources across pages.
  - fileName: index-table-with-loading-state.tsx
    title: With loading state
    description: Notifies merchants that index table items are being processed.
  - fileName: index-table-with-filtering.tsx
    title: With filtering
    description: Allows merchants to narrow the index table to a subset of the original items.
  - fileName: index-table-with-sticky-last-column.tsx
    title: With sticky last column
    description: An index table with a sticky last column that stays visible on scroll. The last heading will also be sticky if not hidden.
  - fileName: index-table-with-row-navigation-link.tsx
    title: With row navigation link
    description: Use when clicking the row should navigate merchants to another page, like the row item's detail page. When a row contains a `Link` with the `dataPrimaryLink` prop set to `true`, clicking the row will trigger navigation to the link's `url` instead of selecting the row as well as trigger the callback set on the `IndexTable` `onNavigation` prop if provided.
  - fileName: index-table-without-checkboxes.tsx
    title: Without checkboxes
    description: An index table without checkboxes and bulk actions.
---

Index tables can also:

- Support [customized index rows and columns](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/resource-item)
- Include bulk actions so merchants can act on multiple objects at once
- Support sorting and [filtering](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/filters) of long lists
- Be paired with pagination to make long lists digestible

---

## Build

Using an index table in a project involves combining the following components and subcomponents:

- IndexTable
- [IndexTableRow](#index-table-row)
- [IndexTableCell](#index-table-cell)
- [Filters](/components/selection-and-input/filters) (optional)
- [IndexFilters](/components/selection-and-input/index-filters) (optional)
- Pagination component (optional)

The index table component provides the UI elements for list sorting, filtering, and pagination, but doesn’t provide the logic for these operations. When a sort option is changed, filter added, or second page requested, you’ll need to handle that event (including any network requests) and then update the component with new props.

---

## Purpose

Shopify is organized around objects that represent merchants businesses, like customers, products, and orders. Each individual order, for example, is given a dedicated page that can be linked to. In Shopify, we call these types of objects _resources_, and we call the object’s dedicated page its _details page_.

### Problem

Take orders as an example. Merchants may have a lot of them. They need a way to scan their orders, view the different attributes on each order, and find out which ones need action first. In other words, they need a way find an individual order, call up more information about it, and take action on it.

### Solution

Index tables function as:

- A content format, presenting a set of individual resources with multiple columns of information for each
- A system for taking action on one or more individual resources
- A way to navigate to an individual resource’s details page

Because a details page displays all the content and actions for an individual resource, you can think of a resource list as a summary of these details pages. In this way resource lists bridge a middle level in Shopify’s navigation hierarchy.

---

## Best practices

Index tables should:

- Have items that perform an action when clicked. The action should navigate to the resource’s details page or otherwise provide more detail about the item.
- [Customize the content and layout](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/resource-item) of their items rows to surface information to support merchants’ needs.
- Support sorting if the list can be long, and especially if different merchant tasks benefit from different sort orders.
- Support [filtering](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/filters) if the list can be long.
- Paginate when the current list contains more than 50 items.
- Use the [skeleton page](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/skeleton-page) component on initial page load for the rest of the page if the loading prop is true and items are processing.
- Numeric cells and titles should be right aligned with the [Text](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/text) component
- Numeric cells should use the numeric style with the [Text](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/text) component

Index tables can optionally:

- Provide bulk actions for tasks that are often applied to many list items at once. For example, merchants may want to add the same tag to a large number of products.

---

## Content guidelines

Index tables should:

- Identify the type of resource, usually with a heading

<!-- dodont -->

#### Do

- Products
- Showing 50 products

#### Don’t

- _No heading_

<!-- end -->

- Indicate when not all members of a resource are being shown. For a card summarizing and linking to recently purchased products:

<!-- dodont -->

#### Do

- Popular products this week

#### Don’t

- Products

<!-- end -->

- Follow the verb + noun formula for bulk actions

- Follow the [content guidelines for filter options and applied filters](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/filters#content-guidelines)

---

## IndexTableRow

An `IndexTableRow` is used to render a row representing an item within an `IndexTable`

### IndexTableRow properties

| Prop     | Type       | Description                                                      |
| -------- | ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| id       | string     | A unique identifier for the row                                  |
| selected | boolean    | A boolean property indicating whether the row is selected        |
| position | number     | The index position of the row                                    |
| subdued  | boolean    | A boolean property indicating whether the row should be subdued  |
| status   | RowStatus  | A property indicating whether the row should have a status       |
| disabled | boolean    | A boolean property indicating whether the row should be disabled |
| onClick  | () => void | A function which overrides the default click behaviour           |

## IndexTableCell

An `IndexTableCell` is used to render a single cell within an `IndexTableRow`

### IndexTableCell properties

| Prop      | Type    | Description                                                                      |
| --------- | ------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| flush     | boolean | A boolean property indicating whether the cell should remove the default padding |
| className | string  | Adds a class to the cell, used for setting widths of a cell                      |

---

## Related components

- To create an actionable list of related items that link to details pages, such as a list of customers, use the [resource list component](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/resource-list)
- To present structured data for comparison and analysis, like when helping merchants to gain insights or review analytics, use the [data table component](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/data-table)
- To display a simple list of related content, [use the list component](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/lists/list)

Commit message:

introduce a SubHeader component for the IndexTable
wip

rollback some code

cleanup

CI + docs

changelog

pr comments

add tests

polaris.shopify.com/content/components/tables/index-table.md, after:

---
title: Index table
description: An index table displays a collection of objects of the same type, like orders or products. The main job of an index table is to help merchants get an at-a-glance of the objects to perform actions or navigate to a full-page representation of it.
category: Tables
keywords:
  - ResourceList
  - index
  - table
  - list
  - collections
  - items
  - objects
  - list of products
  - list of orders
  - product lists
  - order lists
  - collections lists
  - collection lists
  - list of collections
  - product listings list
  - channel lists
  - resource list attributes
  - list attributes
  - exceptions list
  - list secondary actions
  - secondary actions in a list
  - list of resources
  - filter
  - sort
examples:
  - fileName: index-table-default.tsx
    title: Default
    description: A index table with simple items and no bulk actions, sorting, or filtering.
  - fileName: index-table-with-views-search-filter-sorting.tsx
    title: With saved views, search, filtering, and sorting
    description: An index table with saved views, search, filtering, sorting, and bulk actions
  - fileName: index-table-with-disabled-rows.tsx
    title: With disabled rows
    description: An index table with saved views, search, filtering, sorting, and bulk actions
  - fileName: index-table-small-screen.tsx
    title: Small screen
    description: A small screen index table with simple items and no bulk actions, sorting, or filtering.
  - fileName: index-table-condensed-with-views-search-filter-sorting.tsx
    title: Small screen with saved views, search, filtering, and sorting
    description: A small screen index table with saved views, search, filtering, sorting, and bulk actions.
  - fileName: index-table-with-empty-state.tsx
    title: With empty state
    description: Use to explain the purpose of a index table when no resources exist yet. This allows a smooth transition from a list in a loading state to a list where zero, one, or many resources exist.
  - fileName: index-table-with-bulk-actions.tsx
    title: With bulk actions
    description: Allows merchants to select items and perform an action on the selection.
  - fileName: index-table-with-multiple-promoted-bulk-actions.tsx
    title: With multiple promoted bulk actions
    description: Allows merchants to select items and perform different actions on the selection.
  - fileName: index-table-with-bulk-actions-and-selection-across-pages.tsx
    title: With bulk actions and selection across pages
    description: Allows merchants to select items, perform an action on the selection and select resources across pages.
  - fileName: index-table-with-loading-state.tsx
    title: With loading state
    description: Notifies merchants that index table items are being processed.
  - fileName: index-table-with-filtering.tsx
    title: With filtering
    description: Allows merchants to narrow the index table to a subset of the original items.
  - fileName: index-table-with-sticky-last-column.tsx
    title: With sticky last column
    description: An index table with a sticky last column that stays visible on scroll. The last heading will also be sticky if not hidden.
  - fileName: index-table-with-row-navigation-link.tsx
    title: With row navigation link
    description: Use when clicking the row should navigate merchants to another page, like the row item's detail page. When a row contains a `Link` with the `dataPrimaryLink` prop set to `true`, clicking the row will trigger navigation to the link's `url` instead of selecting the row as well as trigger the callback set on the `IndexTable` `onNavigation` prop if provided.
  - fileName: index-table-without-checkboxes.tsx
    title: Without checkboxes
    description: An index table without checkboxes and bulk actions.
  - fileName: index-table-with-subheaders.tsx
    title: With subheaders
    description: An index table with logical subheaders
---

Index tables can also:

- Support [customized index rows and columns](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/resource-item)
- Include bulk actions so merchants can act on multiple objects at once
- Support sorting and [filtering](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/filters) of long lists
- Be paired with pagination to make long lists digestible

---

## Build

Using an index table in a project involves combining the following components and subcomponents:

- IndexTable
- [IndexTableRow](#index-table-row)
- [IndexTableCell](#index-table-cell)
- [Filters](/components/selection-and-input/filters) (optional)
- [IndexFilters](/components/selection-and-input/index-filters) (optional)
- Pagination component (optional)

The index table component provides the UI elements for list sorting, filtering, and pagination, but doesn’t provide the logic for these operations. When a sort option is changed, filter added, or second page requested, you’ll need to handle that event (including any network requests) and then update the component with new props.

---

## Purpose

Shopify is organized around objects that represent merchants businesses, like customers, products, and orders. Each individual order, for example, is given a dedicated page that can be linked to. In Shopify, we call these types of objects _resources_, and we call the object’s dedicated page its _details page_.

### Problem

Take orders as an example. Merchants may have a lot of them. They need a way to scan their orders, view the different attributes on each order, and find out which ones need action first. In other words, they need a way find an individual order, call up more information about it, and take action on it.

### Solution

Index tables function as:

- A content format, presenting a set of individual resources with multiple columns of information for each
- A system for taking action on one or more individual resources
- A way to navigate to an individual resource’s details page

Because a details page displays all the content and actions for an individual resource, you can think of a resource list as a summary of these details pages. In this way resource lists bridge a middle level in Shopify’s navigation hierarchy.

---

## Best practices

Index tables should:

- Have items that perform an action when clicked. The action should navigate to the resource’s details page or otherwise provide more detail about the item.
- [Customize the content and layout](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/resource-item) of their items rows to surface information to support merchants’ needs.
- Support sorting if the list can be long, and especially if different merchant tasks benefit from different sort orders.
- Support [filtering](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/filters) if the list can be long.
- Paginate when the current list contains more than 50 items.
- Use the [skeleton page](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/skeleton-page) component on initial page load for the rest of the page if the loading prop is true and items are processing.
- Numeric cells and titles should be right aligned with the [Text](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/text) component
- Numeric cells should use the numeric style with the [Text](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/text) component

Index tables can optionally:

- Provide bulk actions for tasks that are often applied to many list items at once. For example, merchants may want to add the same tag to a large number of products.

---

## Content guidelines

Index tables should:

- Identify the type of resource, usually with a heading

<!-- dodont -->

#### Do

- Products
- Showing 50 products

#### Don’t

- _No heading_

<!-- end -->

- Indicate when not all members of a resource are being shown. For a card summarizing and linking to recently purchased products:

<!-- dodont -->

#### Do

- Popular products this week

#### Don’t

- Products

<!-- end -->

- Follow the verb + noun formula for bulk actions

- Follow the [content guidelines for filter options and applied filters](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/filters#content-guidelines)

---

## IndexTableRow

An `IndexTableRow` is used to render a row representing an item within an `IndexTable`

### IndexTableRow properties

| Prop     | Type                           | Description                                                          |
| -------- | ------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| id       | string                         | A unique identifier for the row                                      |
| selected | boolean &#124; "indeterminate" | A boolean property indicating whether the row is selected            |
| position | number                         | The index position of the row                                        |
| subdued  | boolean                        | A boolean property indicating whether the row should be subdued      |
| status   | RowStatus                      | A property indicating whether the row should have a status           |
| disabled | boolean                        | A boolean property indicating whether the row should be disabled     |
| header   | boolean                        | A boolean property indicating whether the row is a logical subheader |
| onClick  | () => void                     | A function which overrides the default click behaviour               |

## IndexTableCell

An `IndexTableCell` is used to render a single cell within an `IndexTableRow`

### IndexTableCell properties

| Prop      | Type    | Description                                                                      |
| --------- | ------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| flush     | boolean | A boolean property indicating whether the cell should remove the default padding |
| className | string  | Adds a class to the cell, used for setting widths of a cell                      |

---

## Related components

- To create an actionable list of related items that link to details pages, such as a list of customers, use the [resource list component](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/resource-list)
- To present structured data for comparison and analysis, like when helping merchants to gain insights or review analytics, use the [data table component](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/data-table)
- To display a simple list of related content, [use the list component](https://polaris.shopify.com/components/lists/list)
